AC Fixed Tutorial (#2)
tiwaria1/oneAPI-samples: DirectProgramming/DPC++FPGA/Tutorials/Features/ac_types/ac_fixed/README.md

# Using the Algorithmic C Fixed Point Data-type 'ac_fixed'

> This FPGA tutorial demonstrates how to use the Algorithmic C (AC) Data-type `ac_fixed` and some best practices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This FPGA tutorial demonstrates how to use the Algorithmic C (AC) datatype `ac_fixed` and some best practices.
```
I believe the word 'datatype' is not hyphenated.

| Optimized for                     | Description
---                                 |---
| OS                                | Linux* Ubuntu* 18.04/20.04, RHEL*/CentOS* 8, SUSE* 15; Windows* 10
| Hardware                          | Intel® Programmable Acceleration Card (PAC) with Intel Arria® 10 GX FPGA <br> Intel® FPGA Programmable Acceleration Card (PAC) D5005 (with Intel Stratix® 10 SX) <br> Intel® FPGA 3rd party / custom platforms with oneAPI support <br> *__Note__: Intel® FPGA PAC hardware is only compatible with Ubuntu 18.04* 
| Software                          | Intel® oneAPI DPC++ Compiler <br> Intel® FPGA Add-On for oneAPI Base Toolkit
| What you will learn               | How different methods of `ac_fixed` number construction affect hardware resource utilization <br> Recommended method for constructing `ac_fixed` numbers in your kernel <br> Accessing and using the `ac_fixed` math library functions <br> Trading off accuracy of results for reduced resource usage on the FPGA
| Time to complete                  | 30 minutes

## Purpose

This FPGA tutorial shows how to use the `ac_fixed` type with some simple examples.

> This data-type can be used in place of native floating point types to generate area efficient and optimized designs for the FPGA. For example, operations which do not utilize all of the bits the native types are good candidates for replacement with `ac_fixed` type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This data-type can be used in place of native floating point types to generate area efficient and optimized designs for the FPGA. Operations which do not utilize the full dynamic range of the native types are good candidates for using `ac_fixed` types. For example: multiplying by a number in the range of `(-1.0, 1.0)`.
```

> This tutorials shows the recommended method for constructing an `ac_fixed` number, some examples of using the fixed point math library functions and how they can be used to reduce the area of the hardware generated by the compiler by trading-off accuracy of the mathematical operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial shows the recommended method for constructing an `ac_fixed` number, some examples of using the fixed point math library functions and how they can be used to reduce the area of the hardware generated by the compiler by trading-off accuracy of the mathematical operations.
```

Reviewer: I also think that 'trading-off' doesn't need to by hyphenated.

> ### Simple Code Example

Reviewer: Should this (and sibling) section(s) be promoted up a level? I'm not sure this falls under the category of 'purpose'.

An `ac_fixed` number can be defined as follows:
```cpp
ac_fixed<W, I, S> a;
```

> Here W specifies the width and S specifies the sign of the number. One of the W bits is used to store the sign information. The second parameter I is an integer that specifies the location of the fixed point relative to the most significant bit.

Reviewer: `W` and `S` are parameters and should be monospaced.

> The type also provides two more optional parameters for controlling the overflow and rounding modes. For more details on the type, rounding and overflow modes and the range of values supported with different width parameterization please refer to the file `ac_data_types_ref.pdf`.

Reviewer: where is `ac_data_types_ref.pdf`? mention that it's included in this tutorial.

sidenote: do we have permission to distribute it like this?

> To use this type in your code, you must include the following header:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use an `ac_fixed` type in your code, you must include the following header:
```

```cpp
#include <sycl/ext/intel/ac_types/ac_fixed.hpp>
```

> Additionally, you must use the flag `-qactypes` in order to ensure that the headers are correctly included.

Reviewer: I still dislike this flag.

```

The flag `-qactypes` will ensure that the compiler includes the header and links against the necessary libraries for emulation of the math library functions.

This tutorial design contains two kernels `CalculateWithFloat` and `CalculateWithACFixed`. Both calculate the simple expression:
```cpp
  square_root ( sine(x) * sine(x) + cosine(x) * cosine(x) )
```
for some input `x`.

The kernel `CalculateWithFloat` uses floating point values and the standard math library while `CalculateWithACFixed` uses `ac_fixed` values and the `ac_fixed` math library. The `ac_fixed` inputs are instantiated with the following parameters:

```cpp
  W = 10, I = 3, S = true
```

Clearly, the `ac_fixed` numbers are smaller in size than floating point numbers. This results in reduction of the FPGA resources utilized by the functions at the expense of accuracy. To see the trade-offs between accuracy compare the numeric results of the operations. The area utilization differences will be discussed in the section on `Examining the reports`.

When you use the `ac_fixed` library, keep the following points in mind:

1. Input Bit Width and Input Value Range Limits

>     The fixed-point math functions have bit width and input value range requirements. All bit width and input value range requirements are documented at the top of the ac_fixed_math.hpp file. For example, the `sin_fixed` and `cos_fixed` functions require the integer part's bit width to be 3, and the input value range to be within [-pi, pi].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The fixed-point math functions have bit width and input value range requirements. All bit width and input value range requirements are documented at the top of the ac_fixed_math.hpp file. For example, the `sin_fixed` and `cos_fixed` functions require the integer part's bit width to be <exactly> 3, and the input value range to be within [-pi, pi].
```

I assume this is the same as for HLS

2. Return Types

>     For fixed-point functions, each function has a default return type. Assigning the result to a non-default return type triggers a type conversion and can cause an increase in logic use or a loss of accuracy in your results.  All return types are documented at the top of the ac_fixed_math.hpp file. For example, for `sin_fixed` and `cos_fixed`, the input type is `ac_fixed<W, 3, true>`, and the output type is `ac_fixed<W-1, 2, true>`.

Reviewer: you have not consistently monospaced filenames. Either always, or never.

3. Accuracy
 - Floating point vs Fixed point

    The host program (`main()` function) for this tutorial gives you an estimate of the difference between the correct result and the result provided by the math library functions. The floating point version (which has a greater bit width in this case) generates a more accurate result.
 
 - Emulation vs Simulation for fixed point math operations

>     Due to the differences in the internal math implementations, the results from `ac_fixed` math functions in simulation and emulation might not always be bit-accurate. In this example you can observe the difference between emulation and simulation.

Reviewer: When this tutorial releases, will simulation be supported? Is this limitation still present in oneAPI? Having a computational difference between emulation and hardware sounds like it will defeat the purpose of emulation :(

## Key Concepts
 * Constructing an `ac_fixed` from a `float` or `double` value will be much more area intensive than constructing one from another `ac_fixed`.

>  * The `ac_fixed` math library provides a set of functions for various math operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * The `ac_fixed` math library provides a set of functions for various math operations that are optimized for `ac_fixed` types.
```

 * The functions can be used to trade off accuracy of results for reduced resource usage on the FPGA.
 * When using these functions, one must be mindful of the widths of the input and return types and follow the parameterization laid out in the header file for optimal results.

## License

Code samples are licensed under the MIT license. See
[License.txt](https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneAPI-samples/blob/master/License.txt) for details.

## Building the `ac_fixed` Tutorial

### Include Files

> The included header `dpc_common.hpp` is located at `%ONEAPI_ROOT%\dev-utilities\latest\include` on your development system.

Reviewer: is there a reason that this uses the Windows path?
